We now know how to create relationships but we need to understand some more theory to really make sure
that we know what we are doing.
So we want to bring our data model to life and to do this, we have to understand the following words,
cardinality, cross filter direction and active properties.
Let's start with cardinality first and to be honest, I don't like the word cardinality, so maybe let's
just call it type of relationship
and by saying that, I think this might even make it easier for you to understand what that might mean.
Let's take a look.
So we have one specific relationship type, one-to-many or many-to-one,
it's the same thing, just vice-versa.
So this is one cardinality and to understand that, we should take a look at an example.
Let's say we have two tables, the customers table and the orders table. The customers table looks like
this,
so you have three columns, you have the customer ID, the first name and the second name.
The important thing is that the first column, the customer ID is unique,
this means there are no duplicate values,
so each customer can be identified by that ID,
so that's important thing.
Now we have a second table,
the Orders table. The Orders table looks like this, in the first column,
we have different order IDs which are unique. In the second column, we have the order dates and in the
third column, we again have the customer ID. Now as you can imagine, if we want to create a relationship and
as we already learned it actually, we will use the ID customer column to create that relationship.
However if you look at the ID customer column in the Orders table, you can see that Mr. Schwarzmuller
has several orders,
this means that the customer ID is not unique in that column but exists multiple times depending on
the amount of orders of each customer.
Now if you want to create a relationship between those two tables, you create a one because you have
the ID of the customer only once in the Customers table
to many because you have the customers in the orders table multiple times, relationship, one-to-many
and to say this in words, this can simply be described as follows,
each customer is unique in the Customers table but each customer can have multiple orders in the Orders
table
and this is how a one-to-many or as I said, vice-versa, many-to-one relationship basically works.
So this was the first relationship type or cardinality,
let's take a look at a second type,
this is the one-to-one relationship
and I think the easiest way is if we just take a look at an example again.
So this example table looks like this,
we have the passport ID,
so a unique value with different passport related information, like until when it is valid, when it was
issued and we have some information about the person who owns that passport,
so first name, second name and which country person is from.
Now let's assume that you want to split the table, so you would like to have one table that is more related
to passport relevant information and that you have another table that is more related to the information
about the person.
So this could look something like this,
you have one table, the passport table with the passport ID, the valid and the issued column and you have a
second table,
the person table. This person table again has the ID of the passport
but then the first name, the second name and the country.
The important thing is that those two tables have a one-to-one relationship because if you look at the
ID passport columns, you still know that the ID passport is still a unique column or not the column, the
values in that column are unique
and this is why you call that relationship
in contrast to the previous example, one-to-one.
So that's the second cardinality,
so if we now go back to our overview, we are almost done with the cardinality.
There is one last cardinality missing
and to understand that cardinality in Power BI desktop, we have to take into account cardinality and the
cross filter direction. Why we need that, what cardinality type that is and how this works,
let's learn that in the next video.